Previews: beta docs (#47993)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/dashboards/previews.md

+++
title = "Dashboard previews"
keywords = ["grafana", "dashboard", "documentation", "previews"]
aliases = ["/docs/grafana/latest/reference/previews/"]
weight = 9
+++

> # Previews

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Dashboad previews
```

{{< figure  max-width="950px" src="/static/img/docs/dashboards/previews.jpg" animated-gif="/static/img/docs/dashboards/previews.gif" >}}

> > **Note:** Dashboard previews are available in Grafana 9.0+ as an opt-in beta feature. Please refer to the [permissions]({{< relref "#preview-visibility">}}) section to learn about issues with data source permissions before enabling the feature.

Reviewer: Should not be a note. Also, move the image to after line 13.
Also, I am not sure about this "to learn about issues with data source permissions before enabling the feature.". What information should the user look for?

Author: I like the "note" format since it makes this information "pop" from the doc - it immediately captures reader's attention/ Is there any other way to accomplish this? It's an important limitation and we want everyone reading the doc to read this section first.

Author: > Also, I am not sure about this "to learn about issues with data source permissions before enabling the feature.". What information should the user look for?

rephrased

> Dashboard previews bring life to all dashboard list pages. Besides looking pretty, they can serve as an overview of all available dashboards, or as a tool to quickly find the right dashboard in case the dashboard names aren't enough on their own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dashboard previews provide an overview of all available dashboards, or as a tool to quickly find the right dashboard in case the dashboard names aren't enough on their own.
```

Author: applied, split the sentence in two

> Grafana users are not forced to use previews. Each user can choose to disable them and go back to the usual look and feel of list views. We save the choice in the browser's local storage to make it persistent across sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is an opt-in feature and you can choose to disable previews. Grafana saves the choice in the browser's local storage to make it persistent across sessions.

Author: There are two "opt-ins":

1. The feature flag, which is Grafana-instance-wide and accessible only to the admins. Enabling the feature flag is a prerequisite for the crawler process & anyone seeing the previews.
2. UI-toggle with state per grafana user. Each grafana user has the opportunity to disable the feature for themselves, even if the crawler has already collected previews for each dashboard

Not sure how to phrase it, but it's important to put it in the docs as users who dislike the new look of dashboard lists will very much welcome the customizability

- [Enable dashboard previews](#enable-dashboard-previews)
- [About the dashboard previews crawler](#about-the-dashboard-previews-crawler)
- [Permissions](#permissions)

## Enable dashboard previews

> 1. Install the Image Renderer plugin or set up a remote rendering service. `3.4.0` is the minimum version of Image Renderer required for the dashboard preview feature. Refer to [Image rendering]({{< relref "../image-rendering/" >}}) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the Image Renderer plugin or set up a remote rendering service. The minimum version of Image Renderer required for the dashboard preview feature `3.4.0`. Refer to [Image rendering]({{< relref "../image-rendering/" >}}) for more information.
```

Reviewer: You can list this as a Pre-requisite, using "Before you begin" section.

> 2. Open the [config file]({{< relref "../administration/configuration.md#configuration-file-location" >}}) and enable the `dashboardPreviews` [feature toggle]({{< relref "../administration/configuration.md#feature_toggles" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Modify the [configuration file]({{< relref "../administration/configuration.md#configuration-file-location" >}}) to enable the `dashboardPreviews` [feature toggle]({{< relref "../administration/configuration.md#feature_toggles" >}}).
```

Reviewer: This following information should be added to the config file and linked from here.

```
[feature_toggles]
# enable features, separated by spaces

> enable = dashboardPreviews

Reviewer: Move to the appropriate section in the config file.

Author: moved

```

3. Save your changes. Grafana should reload automatically; we recommend restarting the Grafana server in case of any issues.

> Visit the dashboard search page to verify that the setup was successful. You should be able to see dashboard preview placeholders for all your existing dashboards after clicking on the _Show previews_ toggle at the top of page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the dashboard search page, verify that your setup was successful. You should see dashboard preview placeholders for all your existing dashboards after clicking on the _Show previews_ toggle at the top of the page.
```

Author: applied; reversed the first sentence

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/dashboards/previews-successful-setup.jpg"
max-width="950px" animated-gif="/static/img/docs/dashboards/previews-successful-setup.gif" >}}

> Please check [Grafana server logs]({{< relref "../administration/configuration.md#log" >}}) in case you see any warnings after clicking on the toggle - errors logs produced by `dashboard_service` should provide more context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you see any warnings after clicking on the toggle, check [Grafana server logs]({{< relref "../administration/configuration.md#log" >}})for more context.
```

Author: applied, added a bit with logger name

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/dashboards/previews-unsuccessful-setup.png" max-width="950px" >}}

## About the dashboard previews crawler

The dashboard previews crawler is a background process that:

1. [Prepares a list of dashboards to visit](#preparing-the-dashboard-list)
2. [Visits and takes a screenshot of each dashboard](#rendering-previews)

> 3. [Saves the screenshots in persistent storage](#saving-previews)

Reviewer: Should be bullets, not numbered list.

Author: done

The crawler can be configured via the main config file:

```ini
[dashboard_previews.crawler]
# Number of dashboards rendered in parallel. Default is 6.
thread_count =

# Timeout passed down to the Image Renderer plugin. It is used in two separate places within a single rendering request:
# First during the initial navigation to the dashboard and then when waiting for all the panels to load. Default is 20s.
# This setting should be expressed as a duration. Examples: 10s (seconds), 1m (minutes).
rendering_timeout =

# Maximum duration of a single crawl. Default is 1h.
# This setting should be expressed as a duration. Examples: 10s (seconds), 1m (minutes).
max_crawl_duration =

# Minimum interval between two subsequent scheduler runs. Default is 12h.
# This setting should be expressed as a duration. Examples: 10s (seconds), 1m (minutes).
scheduler_interval =
```

### Preparing the dashboard list

> During the initial crawler run, the list will contain all dashboards across all organizations.
> The list will have fewer elements during subsequent runs - it will contain only dashboards which have changed since taking the last preview and those which are brand-new.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the initial crawler run, the list contains all dashboards across all organizations.
During subsequent runs, the list will have fewer elements. For example, it will only contain dashboards that have changed since taking the last preview and those which are brand-new.
```

Author: applied the first sentence and second. Turned the last sentence into bulletpoints - I am not sure about the exact wording

> Modifying the dashboard is the only way of refreshing that dashboard's preview; previews do not have a set timeout after which they expire.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modifying a dashboard is the only way of refreshing that dashboard's preview; previews do not have a set timeout after which they expire.
```

### Rendering previews

> The crawler sends a render request to the Image Renderer for each dashboard in the list. The renderer is instructed to open the dashboard in _kiosk mode_ ([Grafana play example of kiosk mode](https://play.grafana.org/playlists/play/1?kiosk)), take a screenshot, and scale it down to a small, 320 x 240px thumbnail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The crawler sends a render request to the Image Renderer for each dashboard in the list. The renderer is then instructed to open the dashboard in _kiosk mode, take a screenshot, and scale it down to a small, 320 x 240px thumbnail. [Grafana play is an example of kiosk mode](https://play.grafana.org/playlists/play/1?kiosk)).
```

Author: That link points to an example of the kiosk mode in `play.grafana`, the `play.grafana` is not an example of a kiosk mode itself

> Multiple render requests are issued concurrently to improve the performance. The maximum number of concurrent requests can be configured via the `dashboard_previews.crawler.thread_count` config option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiple render requests are issued concurrently to improve performance. The maximum number of concurrent requests can be configured via the `dashboard_previews.crawler.thread_count` config option.
```

> Please consider using the new [contextPerRenderKey]({{< relref "../image-rendering/#rendering-mode" >}}) clustering mode in Image Renderer to further optimize crawler's resource usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the new [contextPerRenderKey]({{< relref "../image-rendering/#rendering-mode" >}}) clustering mode in Image Renderer to further optimize crawler's resource usage.
```

### Saving previews

> The crawler saves previews and their metadata in Grafana's DB. Preview's metadata contains, among others, the [dashboard version]({{< relref "./dashboard_history" >}}) from the time of taking the screenshot. During subsequent runs, the crawler will use the saved version to find stale dashboard previews.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The crawler saves previews and their metadata in Grafana's DB. Preview's metadata contains, among other things, the [dashboard version]({{< relref "./dashboard_history" >}}) from the time of taking the screenshot. During subsequent runs, the crawler uses the saved version to find stale dashboard previews.
```

## Permissions

### Crawler permissions

> The crawler is set up with all permissions required to display all dashboards and query all data sources. The way the permissions are set up depends on the version of Grafana.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The crawler is set up with the required permissions to display all dashboards and query all data sources. The way the permissions are set up depends on the version of Grafana.
```

> In OSS and Enterprise without RBAC enabled, the crawler uses a special user with `Admin` role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In OSS and Enterprise Grafana instances without RBAC enabled, the crawler uses a special user with an `Admin` role.
```

> In Enterprise with RBAC enabled, the crawler uses [service accounts]({{< relref "../administration/service-accounts" >}}) with three fixed roles:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an Enterprise Grafana instance with RBAC enabled, the crawler uses [service accounts]({{< relref "../administration/service-accounts" >}}) with three fixed roles:
```

- `fixed:dashboards:reader`
- `fixed:datasources:reader`
- `fixed:folders:reader`

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/dashboards/previews-service-account.png" max-width="950px" >}}

> Service accounts are created per each organization, they are visible in the service account configuration tab, and their names follow `dashboard-previews-crawler-{organization_id}` convention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service accounts are created per organization. They are visible in the service account configuration tab, and their names follow `dashboard-previews-crawler-{organization_id}` convention.
```

+++
title = "Dashboard previews"
keywords = ["grafana", "dashboard", "documentation", "previews"]
aliases = ["/docs/grafana/latest/reference/previews/"]
weight = 9
+++

# Dashboard previews

{{< figure  max-width="950px" src="/static/img/docs/dashboards/previews.jpg" animated-gif="/static/img/docs/dashboards/previews.gif" >}}

Dashboard previews provide an overview of all available dashboards. They help you quickly find the right dashboard in case the dashboard names aren't enough on their own.

> **Note:** Dashboard previews are available in Grafana 9.0+ as an opt-in beta feature. Data source permissions are not yet taken into the account when displaying the dashboard previews - refer to the [permissions]({{< relref "#preview-visibility">}}) to learn more before enabling the feature.

> Dashboard previews are an opt-in feature and it is disabled by default. If your administrator has enabled the feature (link to config section), then you can use the following procedure to enable it in the Grafana UI. Grafana saves your choice in the browser's local storage to make it persistent across sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can view dashboard previews only when the feature is enabled for your instance. It is an opt-in feature that is, by default, disabled. If your administrator enables the feature (link to config section), then you can use the following procedure to view previews in the Grafana UI. Grafana saves your choice in the browser's local storage to make it persistent across sessions.
```
